To be awarded up to CAS 11:
You should simulate the queues which build up at the checkout. You can assume that the
probability of a customer arriving at the checkouts during any given minute is constant. The
supermarket opens a new checkout when the average of the queue lengths gets above a
given threshold. 
The time taken to process a given customer is uniformly distributed between
two limits; customers chose the queue with the fewest number of people in it.

You should collect and output statistics for: 
*the total number of customers served during your simulation period* 
the average queue size 
the average waiting time per customer.


To be awarded up to CAS 14
*Rather than customers arriving directly at the checkouts, you are to simulate their arrival at
the store and the time they spend selecting items.*

*The probability of arrival at the store during any given minute is constant and has the same value as that 
used above.*
 
*Once in the store, a customer spends time selecting items to put in his/her trolley, so the total time spent in the
shelves is given by the number of items selected multiplied by a constant time per item.*

*The number of items they select is distributed normally. *

The supermarket now operates an 'express' checkout for customers with fewer than 10 items; customers in this category will go
to this checkout, otherwise they chose the shortest queue as above. On all checkouts, the
time taken to process a customer is a constant times the number of items they have selected.

In addition to the above statistics for all tills you should collect and output statistics for the
express checkout.

[Hint: You will need to create customers as they enter the store and keep them in a special
collection until the time comes for them to arrive at the checkouts. This time depends on the
number of items they select which will clearly be discrete. Strictly speaking you can only
generate continuous random variables from a normal distribution, but there is nothing to stop
you rounding to the nearest integer to get a discrete random variable. You should provide
your own values for the mean and standard deviation of this normal distribution and for the
two constant times per item – to select and to process at the checkout.]

To be awarded up to CAS 17

*Rather than the items being anonymous, they should be selected from a known list of items.
The names of items stocked and their prices should be made available in a text file.*

The store operates a loyalty card system which enables it to keep track of what items are purchased by
individual customers and the total amount they spend. It does this by capturing this
information as the customer goes through the checkout and writing it to a file. To simulate
this, just allocate a unique number to each customer as they enter the store.
The output will consist of the text file of customer purchases.

[Hint: There are similarities with the StockControl system. We will look at text file reading and
writing in week 6. You will need to create a suitable text file of supermarket items.]

To be awarded up to CAS 20
Surprise me! Make the simulation more realistic.
• Allow the simulation to run for an extended period of time and vary the customer
arrival rate depending on the time of day.

• Allow checkouts to be closed when the average queue size falls below a threshold
(but remember that customers in the queue have to be served before it closes).

• When choosing which queue to join, allow customers to take into account the number
of items in other people’s trolleys so that they chose the queue with the fewest
number of items in the queue.

• Allow that every so often a customer has an item which is missing a bar code, so that
the checkout assistant has to call for help – this introduces a significant delay.
You might also generate some graphics to show the sizes of the queues etc. as the
simulation proceeds.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deliverables
You must submit your bid before noon on Friday 25th March 2010 using the BlueJ
submission system. Bids submitted late will attract the following penalties:
• Bids submitted up to one day late attract a penalty of 10%
• Bids submitted up to one week late attract a penalty of 25%
• Bids handed in more than one week late will be marked and returned but will receive
CAS 0
The bid is a group bid and is submitted by the group as a whole. All of the following files
should be stored in the project directory:

• A report of no more that 2000 words as a Word document which should contain the
following sections:

1. Front cover: This should contain the name of the project, the name of the group, and
the names of the individual members of the group. It should contain the following
declaration: "We acknowledge that this exercise is part of the formal assessment of
the course, and declare that the work done is our own. Any contribution made by
anyone outside the group is acknowledged as indicated in the section on Cheating &
Plagiarism in the student handbook."

2. User manual: How do I run your program and what output should I expect?

3. Maintenance manual: What are the classes and main methods for each class?

4. Simulation: What assumptions have been made? What values have been chosen for
the simulation constants? How were these values arrived at? If you have carried out
any analysis of the outputs, your conclusions should be reported here.

5. Group activities: Describe how the group operated. Were individuals assigned
specific roles? Set out the work undertaken by each individual member of the group.

• The code for the simulation as a set of BlueJ files.
• JavaDoc for the program.
• Any input and output text files.

In addition, each individual member of the group must email me
(w.w.vasconcelos@abdn.ac.uk) with a paragraph stating, in more detail than in the main
report, your own individual contribution to the project. If you fail to do this, you will receive
CAS 0. The subject of the email should be 'SuperSim'; you should make sure that the email
contains your name. If you feel that any member of the group has not contributed to the work
of the group, you should tell me here. This information is given in confidence.
Notes on how the group should operate
1. Problem analysis, coding, program testing and analysis of output, observation of actual
supermarkets to establish simulation constants, report writing etc. are all meaningful
activities in preparing the bid and should be taken into account in ensuring that all
members of the group contribute equally to this.
2. It is expected that all group members will contribute significantly to the preparation of the
bid. All members must undertake some programming, but it is up to the group how the
programming tasks are allocated between members of the group.
- 4 -
3. Normally all members of the group will receive the same mark. However if it is established
that any member or members of the group have not contributed significantly then their
mark(s) will be reduced accordingly (possibly down to 0).
4. The practical sessions during weeks 6, 7 and 8 should be devoted to this activity;
attendance at practicals is compulsory and any non-attendance will be taken as evidence
of a lack of contribution to the bid.
5. In the same way, I consider the contribution of your mentors to be so important to this
activity that attendance at mentoring sessions is compulsory for weeks 6 to 8.
6. If any group becomes non-viable because not enough members are participating, the
other members should contact me immediately.